Sandwiches. My favourite food is sandwiches. They consist of two slices of wheat bread with butter, and you can put some slices of cheese or sausages between them. Sometimes I add some vegetables. This may be a cucumber or lettuce. My sister also likes sandwiches, but she doesn’t like butter, so she makes her sandwiches without butter. I also like sandwiches with cutlets instead of sausages. It may be chicken or turkey cutlets — it doesn’t matter, it’s very tasty anyway. The sandwiches are absolutely delicious because you can feel the bread, vegetables and meat at the same time.
My favourite food is pizza. I love pizza so much that I can eat it every day. Pizza is good both cold and hot and it smells delicious. I especially like pizza Margherita with cheese, tomatoes and sausages. My favourite part of the pizza is the crust. Nothing can be better than pizza’s crunchy cheesy taste! Although I can make pizza myself and I know some tasty recipes, I prefer pizza from pizza shops. They can make such a delicious pizza that it’s hard to stop eating. 
Mashed potato is my favourite food. I like vegetables, fruits and sweets. I also like meat and fish. In general, I like the food that smells good and looks quite pretty. I think that mashed potato with meatballs is my favourite food. I know how to prepare tasty mashed potatoes. Add butter to boiled potatoes, then add hot milk and beat everything with a mixer. You get a delicate taste! I know that some English people usually start their morning with a traditional English breakfast including scrambled eggs, beans, bacon and many other ingredients. Sometimes I eat scrambled eggs for breakfast too. But most of all I love light fluffy mashed potatoes and juicy meatballs. It is extremely tasty and satisfying. By the way, I can’t live without chocolate. I like milk and dark chocolate with nuts and raisins. Chocolate is creamy and rich and always calms your nerves.
My favourite food is spaghetti. My favourite food is spaghetti. Spaghetti is a type of pasta. They are really tasty. There are many types of spaghetti with different lengths and shapes. You can eat just spaghetti or spaghetti with sauce. I can make Bolognese sauce, tomato sauce, and cream sauce. The taste changes if you change the ingredients. I like to put onion, mushrooms, and sausages in my sauce. Many people like spaghetti because it’s so simple. I think spaghetti is so popular because it is cheap and easy to prepare. Just cook them in boiled water, then make your favourite sauce.Spaghetti can also be stored in the refrigerator. You don’t have to eat them all at once.
Chips. My favourite food is chips. Sometimes they may call them crisps. I can sit in front of the TV and eat a whole bag of chips. Chips come in different flavours: potato chips, banana chips, chips with cheese, tomatoes, onion. My favourite chips are Cheetos. They are spicy and cheesy. It is so delicious, you can’t even imagine. I love the crunchy sound they make and the salty taste of potato chips. I know that they are unhealthy food, and I should not eat it, but I just can not stop because they are so tasty. I need to start eating healthy foods, but this is too difficult. Many people love chips of different tastes. I seriously think I can not live without them!
I like ice cream. I love ice cream! It’s the most popular dessert in the world. I like all sorts of ice cream, but my favourite flavour is Mango Sorbet. Someone may say that this is not real ice cream, but it is like paradise. It is really good when it is a hot summer day and you want to cool off with some cold ice cream.
I know some people in my school entirely hate it because it’s too sweet or gives you a tooth freeze.
Ice cream can release dopamine and that is the happy hormone. Therefore it makes me very happy when I eat ice cream.мIce cream is my favourite food because it is so delicious and comes in many flavours to suit anyone. Ice cream is the best! I like pizza, roast chicken, cakes, chocolate but nothing beats ice cream! I scream for ice cream!